CONTINUE THEIR PUSH TO SEIZE KEY
CITIES IN IRAQ, TAKING ANOTHER
ONE TODAY NEAR THE SYRIAN
BORDER, AS THE U.S. OPENED THE
DOOR TO DIRECT TALKS WITH IRAN,
TO HELP STEM THE INSURGENCY.
GOOD EVENING, I'M GWEN IFILL.
JUDY WOODRUFF IS ON ASSIGNMENT.
ALSO AHEAD, IN A FIVE TO FOUR
DECISION, THE SUPREME COURT
RULED GUN BUYERS MUST DISCLOSE
WHO THEY ARE BUYING THE WEAPON
FOR, UPHOLDING A BAN ON SO-
CALLED STRAW PURCHASES.
PLUS, THE BUSINESS OF
RECREATIONAL MARIJUANA, NOW
LEGAL IN JUST A FEW STATES, BUT
GENERATING A GREAT DEAL OF BUZZ
AMONG INNOVATORS AND INVESTORS
ALIKE.
>> I WAS AN INVESTMENT BANKER
WHO FOCUSED EXCVE
INTERNET AND NEW MEDIA BACK IN
THE LATE '90S AND MID '90S.
AND THIS IS A BIGGER OPPORTUNITY
THAN THAT EVEN WAS.
>> Ifill: THOSE ARE JUST SOME OF
THE STORIES WE'RE COVERING ON
TONIGHT'S "PBS NEWSHOUR."
>> Ifill: GUNMEN WENT ON A
RAMPAGE IN KENYA, KILLING AT
LEAST 48 PEOPLE AND BURNING DOWN
TWO HOTELS.
SOME OF THE VICTIMS HAD GATHERED
TO WATCH THE WORLD CUP.
THE ATTACKS HAPPENED IN THE
COASTAL TOWN OF MPEKETONI, AND
THE SOMALI MILITANT GROUP "AL
SHABAB" CLAIMED RESPONSIBILITY.
WITNESSES SAID THE ATTACKERS
TARGETED NON-MUSLIMS AND MET
LITTLE RESISTANCE FROM KENYAN
SECURITY FORCES.
THE KENYAN GOVERNMENT VOWED TO
CRACK DOWN ON MILITANTS.
>> I WISH TO ASSURE THE COUNTRY
OF THE GOVERNMENT'S COMMITMENT
TO DEAL WITH POLITICAL
INCITEMENT AND CAUTION POLITICAL
LEADERS INCITING THE PUBLIC TO
DESIST FROM DESTRUCTIVE POLITICS
AND ETHNIC PROFILING THAT MAY BE
RESPONSIBLE FOR THIS HEINOUS
ACT.
>> Ifill: A STATE DEPARTMENT
SPOKESWOMAN TODAY REITERATED ITS
WARNING TO AMERICAN CITIZENS
TRAVELING TO KENYA, CITING
TOBI AND
ALONG THE COAST.
RUSSIA CUT OFF NATURAL GAS
DELIVERIES TO UKRAINE TODAY.
"GAZPROM," THE RUSSIAN STATE GAS
AUTHORITY HAD DEMANDED NEARLY $2
BILLION FOR UKRAINE'S PAST DUE
BILLS.
AND IT WANTED UP-FRONT PAYMENTS
FOR FUTURE SUPPLIES.
IN KIEV, UKRAINE'S PRIME
MINISTER REJECTED THE MOVE,
LIKENING IT TO RUSSIA'S
ANNEXATION OF CRIMEA, AND THE
ONGOING SEPARATIST INSURGENCY IN
EASTERN UKRAINE.
>> ( translated ): IT IS NOT
ABOUT GAS.
IT IS A GENERAL RUSSIAN PLAN TO
DESTROY UKRAINE.
WE ARE NOT GOING TO SUBSIDIZE
RUSSIAN GAZPROM.
UKRAINIANS ARE NOT GOING TO PULL
OUT OF THEIR POCKETS $5 BILLION
EVERY YEAR FOR RUSSIA TO BUY
WEAPONS, TANKS, AND PLANES TO
BOMB UKRAINIAN TERRITORIES.
>> Ifill: UKRAINE SAYS IT HAS
ENOUGH RESERVES TO LAST UNTIL
DECEMBER.
MEANWHILE, UKRAINE'S PRESIDENT
PETRO POROSHENKO SAID HE'S
OFFERING UP A PEACE PLAN THAT
INCLUDES A CEASE-FIRE WITH PRO-
RUSSIA REBELS.
BUT HE NOTED UKRAINE'S ARMED
FORCES HAVE TO GET THE BORDER
WITH RUSSIA UNDER CONTROL FIRST.
THE U.S. ARMY LAUNCHED AN
INVESTIGATION TODAY INTO THE
2009 DISAPPEARANCE OF SERGEANT
BOWE BERGDAHL.
BERGDAHL WAS CAPTURED AND HELD
BY THE TALIBAN FOR FIVE YEARS.
BUT FORMER MEMBERS OF HIS UNIT
HAVE SAID HE WALKED OFF ON HIS
OWN.
A TWO-STAR GENERAL IS IN CHARGE
OF THE PROBE.
BERGDAHL, WHO IS NOW RECOVERING
AT AN ARMY MEDICAL CENTER IN
EX BE INTERVIEWED
UNTIL HIS CAREGIVERS GIVE THE GO
ONE OF THE CANDIDATES IN
AFGHANISTAN'S PRESIDENTIAL RUN-
OFF HAS CALLED SATURDAY'S VOTE A
"FRAUD."
FORMER FOREIGN MINISTER ABDULLAH
ABDULLAH DECRIED INITIAL REPORTS
THAT HIS RIVAL, FORMER FINANCE
MINISTER, ASHRAF GHANI, WAS
LEADING BY A MILLION VOTES.
FINAL RESULTS AREN'T EXPECTED
UNTIL JULY 22ND, BUT ABDULLAH
SAID THE EARLY NUMBERS CAN'T BE
RIGHT.
>> WHEN THE COMMISSION ANNOUNCED
THAT THE TURNOUT IS OVER SEVEN
MILLION PEOPLE THERE IS NO
COLLABORATING EVIDENCE AT ALL
THROUGHOUT THE COUNTRY.
THAT IS SOMETHING THAT IS
QUESTIONABLE AND WHAT WE ARE
CONCERNED ABOUT IS ONCE AGAIN
ENGINEERED FRAUD.
>> Ifill: IN APRIL'S FIRST ROUND
OF VOTING, ABDULLAH LED WITH 45
PERCENT OF THE VOTE.
GHANI LAGGED MORE THAN 13 POINTS
BEHIND.
THE LATEST TALKS ON THE FUTURE
OF IRAN'S NUCLEAR PROGRAM ARE
UNDERWAY IN VIENNA.
AN INTERIM AGREEMENT WITH SIX
WORLD POWERS COMES TO AN END IN
LATE JULY.
UNDER THAT DEAL, IRAN CUT BACK
ON PARTS OF ITS NUCLEAR PROGRAM
IN EXCHANGE FOR REDUCED ECONOMIC
SANCTIONS.
THE NUMBER TWO U.S. DIPLOMAT,
DEPUTY SECRETARY OF STATE BILL
BURNS, WILL BE AMONG THE U.S.
OFFICIALS PARTICIPATING THIS
WEEK.
STARBUCKS IS OFFERING ITS
EMPLOYEES TWO YEARS OF FREE OR
REDUCED-COST COLLEGE, IN A NEW
PARTNERSHIP WITH ARIZONA STATE
UNIVERSITY.
IT APPLIES TO ANY OF THE 135,000
U.S. EMPLOYEES WHO WORK AT LEAST
20 HOURS A WEEK.
AND IT'S FOR ONLINE
UNDERGRADUATE COURSES.
AT THE ANNOUNCEMENT IN NEW YORK,
EDUCATION SECRETARY ARNE DUNCAN
TOLD THE COMPANY'S WORKFORCE TO
TAKE ADVANTAGE OF THE
OPPORTUNITY.
>> IT'S NOT EASY WORKING.
IT'S NOT EASY RAISING A FAMILY,
TAKING CLASSES ONLINE.
IF YOU DO THIS, IF YOU INVEST IN
YOURSELVES, WHAT YOU'LL DO FOR
YOURSELVES, YOUR KIDS, YOUR
FAMILIES, FOR THE NEXT 40 OR 50
YEARS, YOU'LL ABSOLUTELY CHANGE
THAT TRAJECTORY.
I URGE YOU TO TAKE ADVANTAGE OF
THIS.
I URGE YOU TO WORK HARD TO
SUPPORT EACH OTHER IN THIS NEW
JOURNEY.
IF YOUS CAN DO THIS WELL,
THINK OF THE EXAMPLE IT WILL SET
FOR THE REST OF THE NATION.
>> Ifill: EMPLOYEES WHO TAKE
PART IN THE TUITION PLAN WILL
NOT BE REQUIRED TO STAY AT
STARBUCKS AFTER EARNING THEIR
DEGREES.
G.M. ANNOUNCED ANOTHER WHOPPING
NEW RECALL TODAY:
3.2 MIN
POSSIBLE IGNITION SWITCH
PROBLEMS.
THE COMPANY SAID IT WILL CHANGE
OR REPLACE THE KEYS ON THE CARS
FROM THE 2000 TO 2014 MODEL
YEARS INVOLVED IN THE RECALL.
G.M. IS IN THE MIDST OF A MAJOR
SAFETY REVIEW OF PROBLEMS WITH
IGNITION SWITCHES THE COMPANY
FAILED TO DISCLOSE FOR YEARS.
IT WAS A MOSTLY QUIET DAY ON
WALL STREET TODAY WITH SLIGHT
GAINS.
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
ADDED FIVE POINTS TO CLOSE AT
16,781.
THE NASDAQ ROSE 10 POINTS TO
CLOSE AT 4,321.
THE S-AND-P 500 GAINED MORE THAN
A POINT TO CLOSE ABOVE 1,937.
SAN ANTONIO SPURS FANS HAD A LOT
TO CELEBRATE TODAY, FIVE
NATIONAL BASKETBALL CHAMPIONSHIP
TITLES.
LAST NIGHT, THE SPURS DEFEATED
THE TWO-TIME DEFENDING CHAMPS,
THE MIAMI HEAT, 104 TO 87.
THE SPURS CAPTURED THE TITLE IN
FRONT OF THE HOME CROWD IN GAME
FIVE OF THE SERIES.
OUTSIDE, THOUSANDS PARTIED IN
THE STREETS OF SAN ANTONIO, IN
MOSTLY PEACEFUL CELEBRATIONS.
FORMULA-ONE RACING LEGEND
MICHAEL SCHUMACHER HAS EMERGED
FROM A COMA, AND WAS MOVED TO A
SWISS MEDICAL CENTER TODAY.
HE WAS IN A SKIING ACCIDENT LATE
LAST YEAR IN THE FRENCH ALPS,
AND HAS BEEN HOSPITALIZED WITH
BRAIN INJURIES SINCE THEN.HIS ML
CONTINUE THE PROCESS OF
REHABILITATION AND RECOVERY IN
SWITZERLAND.
BASEBALL HALL OF FAMER TONY
GWYNN DIED IN CALIFORNIA TODAY
OF CANCER.
GWYNN PLAYED 20 SEASONS WITH THE
SAN DIEGO PADRES, EARNING HIS
NICKNAME "MR. PADRE."
HE HAD 3,141 HITS OVER HIS
CAREER AND WON EIGHT NATIONAL
LEAGUE BATTING TITLES.
IN 2010, HE HAD THE FIRST OF TWO
OPERATIONS TO REMOVE TUMORS IN
HIS RIGHT CHEEK.
GWYNN ATTRIBUTED HIS CANCER TO
USING SMOKELESS TOBACCO
THROUGHOUT HIS CAREER.
HE WAS 54 YEARS OLD.
STILL TO COME ON THE NEWSHOUR:
MILITANTS IN IRAQ EXTEND THEIR
GAINS, TAKING A TOWN NEAR THE
SYRIAN BORDER;
THE SUPREME COURT WEIGHS IN ON
GUN SALES AND CAMPAIGN ADS;
HIGH HOPES FOR THE BUSINESS OF
RECREATIONAL MARIJUANA;
A STORY OF MURDER AND MERCY IN
TEXAS;
PLUS, A WELL-KNOWN JAZZ MUSICIAN
BECOMES ITS MAINSTREAM CHAMPION.
>> Ifill: THE CRISIS IN IRAQ
CONTINUES TO ESCALATE, WITH
REPORTS OF MASS KILLINGS BY
SUNNI EXTREMISTS, AS GOVERNMENT
FORCES LOSE MORE TERRITORY.
JONATHAN RUGMAN OF INDEPENDENT
TELEVISION NEWS IS ON THE
GROUND.
SOME VIEWERS MIGHT FIND ELEMENTS
OF THIS REPORT DISTURBING.
>> Reporter: THIS IS IRAQI AIR
FORCE VIDEO OF HELICOPTERS
ATTACKING I.S.I.S. MILITANTS
OUTSIDE TEL AFAR.
BUT IT WAS NOT ENOUGH TO STOP
THE CITY FALLING TO JIHADISTS
OVERNIGHT.
A CITY OFFICIAL SAID FAMILIES
HAVE BEEN TRAPPED IN THEIR
HOUSES BY THE FIGHTING AND MANY
PEOPLE WERE KILLED.
AND FROM I.S.I.S. ANOTHER
SHOCKING VIDEO OF ANOTHER
APPARENT ATROCITY.
FIVE IRAQI SOLDIERS IN ALL SEEN
PLEADING FOR THEIR LIVES IN THE
DESERT.
A MAN IDENTIFIED AS JAFAR ZAKI
IS ORDERED TO SWEAR ALLEGIANCE
TO AN ISLAMIC STATE.
WHEN HE REFUSES, THE FOOTAGE
GOES ON TO SHOW THAT ALL THE MEN
ARE SHOT DEAD.
"GOD IS GREAT.
I KILLED A SHIITE," SAYS A VOICE
ON THE TAPE.
WE CAN'T VERIFY THIS APPALLING
SCENE, NOR THESE PHOTF
MASS EXECUTION OF SOLDIERS WHICH
APPEARED ON THE INTERNET
YESTERDAY.
BUTMO
TO BAGHDAD TO ENLIST, AN ARMY
SPOKESMAN SAID THE PHOTOS WERE
AUTHENTIC.
BUT OF 170 TROOPS KILLED HE
SAID, NOT 1,700 THAT I.S.I.S.
CLAIMED.
>> ( translated ): FALSE NEWS
HAS BEEN CIRCULATED ABOUT AN
EXAGGERATED NUMBER OF SOLDIERS
AND VOLUNTEERS KILLED BY ISIS
GANGS.
THIS NEWS IS BASELESS AND
BAGHDAD MILITARY OPERATIONS
COMMAND HAS DENIED IT.
>> Reporter: AND IN THIS
ESCALATING SPIRAL OF VIOLENCE,
HUNDREDS OF THOUSANDS ARE
BELIEVED TO HAVE FLED THE
FIGHTING IN THE LAST WEEK ALONE.
THE COMBINATION OF REPORTED
ATROCITIES BY ISLAMIC MILITANTS
AND GOVERNMENT AIR STRIKES IS
CONTINUING TO DRIVE IRAQIS FROM
THEIR HOMES.
AND WITH NO SIGN OF A NEW
COALITION GOVERNMENT BEING
FORMED IN BAGHDAD, THERE'S NO
POLITICAL SOLUTION EITHER TO
IRAQ'S WIDENING SECTARIAN
DIVIDE.
WE HEADED INTO THE CITY OF
KIRKUK, WHERE KURDISH PESHMERGA
FING ISIS
ON THE OUTSKIRTS.
A SCHOOL HAD BEEN TAKEN OVER BY
FAMILIES FLEEING FROM TIKRIT,
WHICH HAD BEEN FELL TO ISIS LAST
WEEK.
THE MUSSA FAMILY SAW THEIR LOCAL
MOSQUE BADLY DAMAGED BY
FIGHTING.
"IT'S NOT YOU WE'VE COME TO
HURT," THE JIHADISTS TOLD THEM,
BUT THE IRAQI GOVERNMENT.
MR. MUSSA SEEMED TERRIFIED BY
BOTH SIDES, SO I ASKED HIM IF
THE TIME HAD COME FOR SEPARATE
STATES WITH SUNNI AND SHIA
APART.
>> ( translated ): YES.
THEY ARE GETTING FURTHER APART
BECAUSE THERE ARE SO MANY
PROVOCATIONS.
AS THERE ARE NO WISE ELDERS,
EVERYONE IS ENFLAMING THE
SITUATION.
>> Reporter: THE U.N. IS
EXPANDING ITS OPERATIONS HERE
AND PLANNING FOR A HUMANITARIAN
CRISIS, AS EVIDENCE OF
ATROCITIES CONTINUE TO MOUNT.
THE LATEST SECTARIAN UPRISING IN
IRAQ HAS CAUSED THE U.S. TO MOVE
SOME EMBASSY EMPLOYEES OUT OF
BAGHDAD AND, ACCORING TO THE
ASSOCIATED PRESS, CONSIDER
SENDING SPECIAL FORCES IN.
TONIGHT, WE LOOK AT THE
INSURGENTS BEHIND THE VIOLENCE.
THE GROUP IS KNOWN AS I.S.I.L.,
THE ISLAMIC STATE OF IRAQ AND
THE LEVANT, ALSO  REFERRED TO AS
I.S.I.S.
FOR MORE ON WHO THEY ARE AND THE
THREAT THEY REPRESENT, WE TURN
TO BRIAN FISHMAN, A COUNTER-
TERRORISM RESEARCH FELLOW AT THE
NEW AMERICA FOUNDATION.
HE'S ALSO A RESEARCH FELLOW AT
THE WEST POINT MILITARY ACADEMY.
AND RANIA ABOUZEID, AN
INDEPENDENT JOURNALIST WHO HAS
WRITTEN FOR THE NEW YORKER AND
TIME MAGAZINE.
SHE'S SPENT TIME WITH SUNNI
MILITANT FIGHTERS IN NORTHERN
SYRIA.
WELCOME TO YOU BOTH.
BRIAN FISHMAN WHO IS, WHO
ARE I.S.I.L. AND WHY DO THEY
FEEL, SEEM MORE DANGEROUS?
>> WELL, I.S.I.L. IS THE
MODERN INCARNATION OF THE
ORGANIZATION THAT WAS
ORIGINALLY FOUNDED IN IRAQ
BY AL CZAR CAW OUI, IT BEGAN
IN THE EARLY DAYS AFTER THE
U.S. OCCUPATION OF IRAQ, IT
TURNED INTO AL QAEDA AND
IRAQ IN 2004, WAS LATER
AFTER HIS DEATH IN OCTOBER
OF 2006, AN ENTITY CALLED
THE ISLAMIC STATE OF IRAQ
WAS DECLARED.
AND THAT WAS THE FIRST TIME
THAT THIS ORGANIZATION
REALLY WANTED TO ATTEMPT TO
GOVERN LARGE AREAS IN IRAQ.
THE ISIS AT THAT POINT WAS
LARGELY DEFEATED IN THE
TRIBAL UPRISING AGAINST AL
QAEDA AND U.S. FORCES.
BUT WITH THE BEGINNING OF
VIOLENCE IN SYRIA WITH THE
CIVIL WAR, THE ISIS WAS ABLE
TO REGAIN STRENGTH AND IN
2012 BEGAN CALLING ITSELF
I.S.I.L. OR ISLAMIC STATE OF
IRAQ AND THE LEVANT.
FUNDAMENTALLY THIS IS THE
ORGANIZATION THAT WAS BEGUN
BY AL ZARCAWI BACK IN 2004.
>> RANIA A BUZ ED THIS
ORGANIZATION SEEMS TO HAVE
GREAT EXPECTATIONS OF WHAT
IT CAN COMPETITION EVEN
BOUND THE BO
HOW DOES IT COMPARE TO THE
AL NOUSRA FRONT, FOR
INSTANCE.
>> WELL, THE AL NOUSRA FOUND
WAS FORMED BY THE ISIS.
THE LEADER SENT A GROUP OF
MEN INTO FORM AL NUSRA FRONT
IN LATE 2011 JUST A FEW
MONTHS AFTER THE START OF
THE SYRIAN UPRISING.
IT BECAME QUITE A POTENT
FORCE IN SYRIA.
AND IN YOU KNOW APRIL 2013
THE ISIS LEADER DECIDED THAT
HE WAS GOING TO FORM ISIS OR
I.S.I.L. AND MERGE AL NOUSRA
WITH ISIS.
THE LEADER REJECTED THIS
MOVE.
NOW THE TWO GROUPS ARE VERY
DIFFERENT.
EVEN THOUGH THEY BASICALLY
SHARE THE SAME IDEOLOGY
WHICH IS THAT THEY WANT TO
SEE-- THEY WANT TO ESTABLISH
AN ISLAMIC STATE IN SYRIA
AND IN IRAQ.
AND THEY WANT TO RESTORE TH
THE-- THEY DIFFER HOWEVER IN
TERMS OF WHO SHOULD LEAD
THEIR OPERATION IN TERMS OF
STRATEGY AND THEIR TACTICS.
AL NOUSRA FOR EXAMPLE ARE
VERY CAREFUL NOT TO
ANTAGONIZE THE LOCAL
POPULATIONS IN WHICH IT IS
BASED.
ISIS, HOWEVER, DOESN'T SEEM
TO SHARE THAT CONCERN.
AND IT ACTUALLY IMPOSES ITS
RATHER HARSH ULTRA
CONSERVATIVE UNDERSTANDING
OF ISLAM ON THE LOCAL PEOPLE
IN THE AREAS IN WHICH IT IS
BASED.
>> Ifill: BRIAN FISHMAN WHAT
WE KEEP HOURING IS ABU BAKR
AL-BAGHDADI, TELL US ABOUT
HIM.
>> HE WAS BORN IN SAMARA
WHICH IS A TOWN NORTH OF
BEING DAD.
-- BAGHDAD.
AND HE'S SORT OF EXALTED IN
AN INTERESTING WAY BY THE
JIHADI THAT SUPPORT HIM.
HE IS A RAGS TO RICHES STORY
OF A VERY POOR BOY THAT
WOUND UP GOING TO STUDY
PERHAPS FOR A DOCTORATE AT A
UNIVERSITY IN BAGHDAD,
STUDYING ISLAMIC THEOLOGY
AND POETRY
WE KNOW FOR A FACT THAT HE
WAS IMPRISONED IN A U.S.
FACILITY DURING THE
INSURGENCY BACK IN 2005.
EXACTLY WHEN HE WAS RELEASED
AND THE CONDITIONS, THE
CIRCUMSES OF THAT
RELEASE ARE NOT EXACTLY
CLEAR.
BUT WHAT IS CLEAR IS THAT HE
WAS RADICALLIZED IN PRISON
AND THEN ROSE THROUGH THE
RANKS OF THE ISIS AND
I.S.I.L. AND HE IS SOMEBODY
THAT UNLIKE OTHER JIHADI
LEADERS VERY MUCH IS WILLING
TO STAY OUT OF THE LIMELIGHT.
HE SEEMS VERY FOCUSED ON
SORT OF THE PRACTICAL
APPLICATION OF FORCE.
AND THE MOVEMENT TOWARDS HIS
STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES.
AS RANIA SAID THAT DOESN'T
MEAN THAT THE I.S.I.L. HAT
THOSE-- HAS NOT BEEN BRUTS
ALL.
IT HAS BEEN EXTRAORDINARILY
BRUTAL BUT IT IS SIGNIFICANT
THAT AL-BAGHDADI AS OPPOSED
TO ZAWAHIRI-- IS VERY
FOCUSED ON HIS LONG-TERM
OBJECTIVE AND DOES SEEM TO
BE MORE FLEXIBLE IN
HERMS-- TERMS OF HOW HE
APPLIES HIS UNDERSTANDING OF
ISLAMIC LAW IN VARIOUS
PLACES.
SO YOU SEE I.S.I.L. TAKING A
MUCH HARSHER APPROACH IN
SYRIA THAN IT HAS IN IRAQ,
FOR EXAMPLE, WHERE IT HAS
BEEN ABLE TO REBUILD SOME
RELATIONSHIPS WITH TRIBAL
GROUPS AND OTHER SUNNI
MILITANT ORGANIZATIONS THAT
IT HAD ALIENATED PREVIOUSLY.
>> RANIA ABOUZEID WHO PAYS
FOR ALL OF THIS.
HOW DID THIS ORGANIZATION
SUDDENLY BLOOM OR AT LEAST
TO US IT SEEMS SUDDEN?
>> WELL, IN SYRIA, FOR
EXAMPLE, ISIS OR I.S.I.L.
HAS TAKEN OVER VAST WAVES OF
THE EASTERN PART OR THE
OIL-PRODUCING PART OF THE
COUNTRY.
IT ALSO FINANCES ITSELF VIA
RACKETEERING, VIA IMPOSING
TAXES ON SOME OF THE PEOPLE
WHO LIVE IN ITS FACILITY.
AND JUST GENERAL CRIMINALITY.
IN ADDITION TO ALSO HAVING
SPONSORED INDIVIDUAL FUNDERS,
YOU KNOW, SHEIKHS IN GULF
COUNTRY FOR EXAMPLE.
>> Ifill: BRIAN FISHMAN IS
NOURI AL-MALIKI IS HE
QUIPPED TO HANDLE THIS
UPRISING?
CAN WE TELL YET?
>> WELL, YOU KNOW, I THINK
NOURI AL-MALIKI HAS FED THIS
UPRISING WITH WHAT I THINK
IS A VERY SECTARIAN A
AGAINA.
HE HAS DRIVEN SOME OF THE
SUNNI TRIBES AND THE BATHIST
ORGANIZATIONS BACK INTO THE
ARMS OF, ISIS.
AND YOU KNOW, MALIKI'S
APPROACH NOW WHICH IS REALLY
A STOPGAP IS CALLING OUT
SHI'A MILITIAS TO HELP BLUNT
THE ISIS APPROACH ON BAGHDAD,
THAT MAY WORK IN A MILITARY
SENSE.
BUT THE MORE THAT THIS FIGHT
BECOMES FRAMED AS A
SECTARIAN ONE BETWEEN SUNNI
AND SHI'A THE MORE THAT
I.S.I.L. GAINS OVER THE LONG
RUN AND THE BIGGER THREAT
THEY WILL BE NOT JUST IN THE
REGION BUT TO THE WEST.
>> Ifill: IS THAT THE SAME
WAY YOU SEE IT FROM THERE?
>> I THINK THAT WHILE I
DISAGREE SOMEWHATMENT I
THINK THAT WHILE ISIS HAS
BEEN ABLE TO TAKE ADVANTAGE
OF THE FACT THAT MANY
SUNNIES FEEL DISENFRANCHISED
BECAUSE OF MALIKI'S
INCREASINGLY SECTARIAN RULE,
I DON'T THINK THAT THAT
RELATIONSHIP MAY LAST.
I THINK THAT WE WOULD HAVE
SEEN ALREADY IN MOSUL, FOR
EXAMPLE, JUST TWO DAYS AFTER
THE ISIS TOOK OVER THE CITY
IT DECLARED ITS RULES FOR A
LIFE IN MOSUL AND THEY WERE
EXTREMELY HARSH.
THEY INCLUDED THINGS LIKE,
YOU KNOW, WOMEN MUST NOW
WEAR THE ALL ENVELOPING
BLACK CLOAK.
THEY MUST WEAR THE FACE
VEIL.
THEY CAN ONLY LEAVE THEIR
HOMES WHEN NECESSARY.
PEOPLE IT IS IMPOSED
OBLIGATORY PRAYERS FIVE
TIMES A DAY IN THE MOSQUES.
SO IT'S BASICALLY IMPOSING
ITS VERY HARSH IDEAS ON THE
PEOPLE.
AND IF WE RECALL JUST A FEW
SHORT YEARS AGO THAT'S
EXACTLY THE SAME APPROACH
THAT LEAD TO THE TRIBAL
AWAKENINGS WHEN SUNNIES WITH
THE AID OF THE U.S. MILITARY
ROSE UP AGAINST THE THEN AL
QAEDA AFFILIATE IN THEIR
MIDST AND REMOVED IT.
SO ISIS DOESN'T SEEM TO HAVE
LEARNED FROM ITS RECENT
HISTORY.
BECAUSE IT IS TAKING THE
SAME APPROACH IN SOME
IT HAS NOW TERMS OF HOLDING
WON.
>> Ifill: RANIA ABOUZEID OF
TIME AND NEW YORKER AND
BRIAN FISHMAN, THANK YOU
VERY MUCH.
EARLIER THIS EVENING THE
WHITE HOUSE RELEASED A
LETTER THAT PRESIDENT OBAMA
SENT TO THE SPEAKER OF THE
HOUSE JOHN BOEHNER AND TO
THE PRESIDENT PRO TELL OF
THE SENATE.
THE PRESIDENT INFORMED THEM
THAT UP TO 275 U.S. ARMED
FORCES WILL BE DEPLOYED TO
IRAQ.
THE TROOI IN
COUNTRY TO PROTECT AMERICAN
CITIZENS AND PROPERTY
>> Ifill: TWO SUPREME COURT
DECISIONS TODAY.
ONE ON PURCHASING FIREARMS AND
THE OTHER INVOLVING POLITICAL
SPEECH.
JEFFREY BROWN HAS THAT.
>> Brown: AS IT HAPPENS, BOTH
CASES INVOLVE WHEN THE 'TRUTH'
MUST BE TOLD.
IN A 5-4 DECISION  THE COURT
RULED THAT THE FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT CAN ENFORCE ITS BAN
ON SO-CALLED "STRAW GUN"
PURCHASES.
UNDER THAT LAW, BUYERS MUST TELL
THE TRUTH WHEN THEY ARE BUYING
GUNS FOR SOMEONE ELSE.
IN A SEPARATE RULING, THE COURT
LOOKED AT AN OHIO LAW THAT BARS
THE MAKING OF FALSE STATEMENTS
ABOUT CANDIDATES IN A POLITICAL
CAMPAIGN.
THE COURT UNANIMOUSLY RULED THAT
A LEGAL CHALLENGE TO THE LAW CAN
GO FORWARD.
HERE TO TELL US MORE, AS ALWAYS,
IS MARCIA COYLE OF THE NATIONAL
LAW JOURNAL.
>> MARCIA, LET'S START WITH
THE GUN CASE FIRST.
>> OKAY.
>> THIS INVOLVED THE
PURCHASE OF A GUN BY A MAN
FOR HIS UNCLE.
>> RIGHT, EXACTLY.
>> WHAT HAPPENED.
>> BRUCE A BRANSKI WAS A
FORMER VIRGINIA POLICE
OFFICER.
OFFERED TO BUY THE GUN FOR
HIS UNCLE WHO LIVED IN
PENNSYLVANIA BECAUSE HE
THOUGHT HE COULD GET A
DISCOUNT ON THE PRICE GIVEN
HIS LAW ENFORCEMENT
BACKGROUND.
THE UNCLE GAVE HIM THE
MONEY.
HE WANTED TO BUY A GLOCK.
A PROGRAMSKI WENT FORWARD,
BOUGHT THE GUN AND LATER
TRANSFERED TO HIS UNCLE IN
PENNSYLVANIA, BUT THE
PROBLEM FOR ABRAHAMSKI WHEN
HE BOUGHT THE GUN HE CHECKED
A BOX ON THE FORM THAT ISED
IF HE WAS THE ACTUAL BUYER.
AND THE FORM MADE CLEAR THAT
IF YOU ARE BUYING THE GUN ON
BEHALF OF SOMEONE ELSE ARE
YOU NOT THE ACTUAL BUYER.
YOU ARE WHAT IS KNOWN AS A
STRAW PURCHASER.
HE WAS LATER ARRESTED AND
CONVICTED OF MAKING A
MATERIAL FALSE STATEMENT
UNDER THE FEDERAL GUN
CONTROL ACT.
>> Brown: AND THIS CASE, WE
SHOULD SAY, THEY WERE BOTH
LEGAL -- .
>> VERY IMPORTANT.
>> Brown: GUN OWNERS, RIGHT.
>> THEY WERE BOTH LEGALLY
ELIGIBLE TO BUY A GUN.
>> Brown: RIGHT.
SO THE LOWER COURT UPHELD
THE CONVICTION AND JUSTICE
KAGAN TODAY WRITING FOR THE
MAJORITY AGREED.
SHE SAID ALLOWING THIS
ARGUMENT BY THE PLAINTIFF TO
STAND WOULD VIRTUALLY REPEAL
THE GUN LAWS CORRPRO VISION
ON BACKGROUND CHECKS.
>> NOT ONLY BACKGROUND
CHECKS BUT DOCUMENTATION,
RECORDKEEPING BY GUN DEALERS
THAT IS ESSENTIAL FOR A
DEALER TO KNOW WHO IS-- TO
KNOW WHO THE BUYER IS IN
ORDER TO DETERMINE WHETHER
THE SALE IS LEGAL, AND ALSO
CRITICAL TO LAW ENFORCEMENT,
THAT CLAIM THEY NEED THIS
INFORMATION IN ORDER TO
TRACE GUNS THAT ARE
COMMITTED IN CRIMES.>> Brown: KE
THAT ONLY A NUMB SKULL, I
HAVE TO ASK YOU THIS, A
TECHNICAL LEGAL TERM SHE'S
USING HER, ONLY A NUMB SKULL
WOULD PROVIDE A PAPER TRAIL
FOR VIOLATING THE LAW.
>> YES.
JUSTICE KAGAN DOES WRITE
COLORFULLY AT TIMES.
SHE FOR THE NAMED DESCENTER
JUSTICE SCALIA AN JUSTICES
THOMAS AND ALITO.
HE SAID YOU LOOK AT CRIMINAL
LAWS AND INTERPRET THEM BY
THEIR ODE MEANING.
IF HE GAVE HIS SUN $10 TO
BUY MILK AND EGGS AT A STORE,
THE STORE WOULDN'T CLAIM
THAT THE ACTUAL BUYER WAS
JUSTICE SCALIA, IT WAS HIS
SON.
AND HE SAID CONGRESS NEVER
INTENDED TO MAKE CRIMINALS
OUT OF PEOPLE WHO WERE
LEGALLY ENTITLED TO PURCHASE
GUNS.
>> Brown: SO HE IS SAYING
THIS IS A MISINTERPRETATION.
>> HE SAID IT MAY HAVE BEEN
A COMPROMISE THAT CONGRESS
CAME TO, IT WAS DEALING WITH
A CONTROVERSIAL AREA.
BUT HE STILL DID NOT BELIEVE
THAT THE LAW AS WRITTEN
WOULD COVER THESE TWO MEN IN
THIS PARTICULAR PURCHASE.
>> Brown: IT IS A RARE CASE.
I WAS LOOKING AT THE
REACTION TO IT FROM VARIOUS
SIDES.
IT IS A RARE CASE WHERE THE
GUN INDUSTRY AND GUN RIGHTS
ADVOCATES ARE ACTUALLY ON
THE LOSING SIDE.
>> THAT'S RIGHT.
IN FACT, I THINK SOMETHING
LIKE 26 STATES CAME IN ON
THE SIDE OF MR. ABRAHAMSKI
SUPPORTING HIM IN THIS.
SO AS YOU CAN TELL FROM THE
5-4 DIVISION T WASN'T THE
EASIEST CASE FOR THE
JUSTICES TO RESOLVE.
>> Brown: AND IT WAS JUSTICE
KENNEDY, WE OFTEN TALK ABOUT
AS THE SWING VOTE WHO
WENT --
>> THE DECISION DIVIDED THEM
IDEA LOGICALLY.
JUSTICE KENNEDY AT THIS
POINT WENT OVER TO THE SIDE
OF THE MORE LIBERAL
JUSTICES.
>> Brown: CASE NUMBER TWO IS
AN OHIO LAW THAT SAYS YOU
CANNOT MAKE A FALSE
STATEMENT ABOUT POLITICAL
CANDIDATES.
>> A LAW THAT PROBABLY A LOT
OF PEOPLE DON'T KNOW EXISTS,
RIGHT.
>> THAT'S TRUE BELIEVE IT OR NOT
SOMETHING LIKE 13 STATES
HAVE SIMILAR LAWS ON THE
BOOKS.
THE SUSAN B. ANTHONY LIST IS
AN ANTIABORTION POLITICAL
ACTION COMMITTEE.
THEY MADE IT CLEAR IN 2010
THAT THEY WERE GOING IT TO
RUN ADDS, SOME ON A
BILLBOARD ATTACKING THEN
CONGRESSMAN STEVE DRYHOUSE
FOR HIS VOTE IN FAVOR OF THE
AFFORDABLE CARE ACT.
ALTHOUGH THEY WERE GOING TO
SAY ON THEIR BILLBOARDS
SHAME ON STEVE DRYHOUSE, HE
VOTED FOR TAXPAYER FUNDED
ABORTIONS.
HE FILED A COMPLAINT WITH
THE OHIO COMMISSION THAT
ENFORCES THIS LAW.
THEY FOUND PROBABLE CAUSE
THAT THE SUSAN B. ANTHONY
LIST WAS VIOLATING THIS LAW.
>> Brown: HE SAID HE IS
OPPOSED TO ABORTION HIMSELF.
>> RIGHT, EXACTLY.
HE LATER, THEY BOTH AGREED
TO PUT IT ASIDE UNTIL AFTER
THE ELECTION.
HE LOST THE ELECTION.
WITHDREW HIS COMPLAINT.
BUT THE SUSAN B. ANTHONY
LIST HAD FILED A FEDERAL
LAWSUIT CHALLENGING THE
CONSTITUTIONALITY OF THE
LAW.
AND SO THE ISSUE BEFORE THE
COURT TODAY WAS REALLY
WHETHER THAT LAWSUIT COULD
GO FORWARD.
THE LOWER COURT SAID HEY
THIS IS OVER.
>> AND THE SUPREME COURT
TODAY UNANIMOUSLY DISAGREED.
>> SO THE LOWER COURT IS
BASICALLY SAYING THERE'S NO
CASE ANY MORE.
>> THAT'S RIGHT.
THE COMPLAINT HAD BEEN
WITHDRAWN.
THE SUSAN B. ANTHONY LIST
BROUGHT THE APPEAL TO THE
SUPREME COURT.
AND TODAY JUSTICE THOMAS
WRITING FOR THE ENTIRE COURT,
ERE IS SOMETHING TO SAID
GO FORWARD HERE.
HE FOUND THAT THERE IS A
CREDIBLE THREAT OF
PROSECUTION.
THAT THE SUSAN B. ANTHONY
LIST PLANNED TO DO THESE ADS
IN THE FUTURE, ATTACKING
OTHER CANDIDATES AND OTHER
ORGANIZATIONS ALSO WANTED TO
DO SIMILAR ADS.
THE OHIO COMMISSION ENFORCES LAO
HANDLE THESE COMPLAINTS.
SAY 25-40 PER YEAR.
AND IT'S VERY POSSIBLE THAT
THE SUSAN B. ANTHONY LIST
WOULD BE FOUND AGAIN TO HAVE
CAUSE TO VIOLATE THE LAW.
AND SO RIGHT NOW IT MEANS
THAT THE CASE IS GOING TO GO
BACK TO THE LOWER COURT ANDTHE T
GETS A CHANCE, AN
OPPORTUNITY TO PROVE THAT
THE LAW IS UNCONSTITUTIONAL
UNDER THE FIRST AMENDMENT.
>> ALL RIGHT, AND MAYBE IT
WILL COME BACK TO THE
SUPREME COURT.
>> IT MIGHT VERY WELCOME
BACK.
>> Brown: MARCIA COYLE OF
THE NATIONAL LAW JOURNAL,
THANKS AS ALWAYS.
>> MY PLEASURE, JEFF.
>> Ifill: WITH RECREATIONAL
MARIJUANA ALREADY LEGAL IN
COLORADO AND WASHINGTON, AND
EFFORTS TO LEGALIZE IT'S USE
UNDERWAY IN AS MANY AS A DOZEN
OTHER STATES, START-UP
BUSINESSES, AND THEIR FINANCIAL
BACKERS, ARE SCRAMBLING TO GET
IN ON THE GROUND FLOOR OF A
NEWLY LEGITIMATE INDUSTRY.
PAUL SOLMAN RECENTLY MET UP WITH
A FEW.
IT'S PART OF HIS ONGOING
REPORTING, "MAKING SENSE OF
FINANCIAL NEWS."
>> THIS IS A UNIQUE MOMENT IN
HISTORY AND THESE DAYS WILL
NEVER RETURN AGAIN.
>> THIS IS LIKE THE WILD WEST
RIGHT NOW, RIGHT, UNFOLDING
BEFORE OUR EYES
>> Reporter: A FLOCK OF GUNG-HO
INVESTORS, WHO'VE TRAVELED TO A
HOTEL NORTH OF BOSTON TO HEAR
PRODUCT PITCHES IN AN "INDUSTRY"
THAT, UNTIL RECENTLY, WAS
STRICTLY ILLICIT.
>> IT'S A REALLY, REALLY
BEAUTIFUL SCENE, TO LOOK OUT AND
SEE THE PEOPLE WHO ARE SHAPING
THE NEXT GREAT AMERICAN
INDUSTRY, THE CANNABIS INDUSTRY.
>> Reporter: TROY DAYTON IS CO-
FOUNDER OF ARCVIEW INVESTORS,
WHICH VETS AND FUNDS CANNA-BIZ
ENTREPRENEURS.
JUST A YEAR AGO, DAYTON NOTED,
>> WE HAD 40 PEOPLE IN A
CONFERENCE ROOM.
AND NOW WE HAVE OVER 200 PEOPLE
OUT THERE TODAY.
THE LAST FEW MONTHS, THE
INTEREST LEVEL FROM INVESTORS
HAS BEEN ASTOUNDING.
>> Reporter: PRESUMABLY, THAT'S
BECAUSE LEGAL RECREATIONAL POT
IS FINALLY HERE.
>> GOT SOME LEGAL WEED!
>> Reporter: ONLY IN COLORADO
AND WASHINGTON FOR NOW, BUT SAYS
THE MARIJUANA POLICY PROJECT'S
ROB KAMPIA.
>> WE EXPECT TO LEGALIZE
MARIJUANA IN RHODE ISLAND AND
ALASKA THIS YEAR, AND WE'LL
PROBABLY END UP WITH ABOUT 12
STATES OVER THE NEXT FOUR YEARS.
>> Reporter: THIS SETS THE STAGE
FOR A GOLD RUSH THAT COULD
CONCEIVABLY RIVAL THE REPEAL OF
PROHIBITION.
IN COLORADO ALONE, STATE
OFFICIALS PREDICT A BILLION
DOLLARS IN SALES, AND OVER $100
MILLION IN TAX REVENUES, THIS
VERY FIRST YEAR, DESPITE THE
FACT THAT BECAUSE OF FEDERAL
DRUG LAWS, BANKS AND CREDIT CARD
COMPANIES ARE STILL KEEPING
THEIR DISTANCE.
NOW THERE WERE NO ACTUAL PRODUCT
SAMPLES AT THIS RECENT
CONFERENCE OUTSIDE BOSTON,
MASSACHUSETTS ALLOWS ONLY
MEDICAL MARIJUANA, BUT PLENTY OF
BUZZ NONETHELESS.
>> WOULD YOU LIKE A DRINK, OR
PERHAPS AN EBBU?
>> Reporter: JON COOPER AND
DOOMA WENDSCHUH HAD AN OLD-
FASHIONED SALES PITCH FOR THEIR
NEW-FANGLED PRODUCT LINE.
>> WE'RE JUST MONTHS AWAY FROM
BEING THE FIRST CANNABIS COMPANY
THAT CAN GUARANTEE A SPECIFIC,
CONSISTENT RESPONSE TO OUR
PRODUCTS.
>> SO THESE WOULD BE FEELINGS
LIKE ENERGY, OR CHILL, OR
GIGGLES.
>> Reporter: CHILL AS IN
"RELAXED," ONE OF FIVE BRANDED
HIGHS EBBU WILL OFFER, VIA FIVE
DIFFERENT DELIVERY MECHANISMS,
IF AND WHEN MARIJUANA IS FULLY
LEGALIZED.
PEOPLE HERE WERE PITCHING FROM
THE STAGE, IN THE HALLWAYS,
DURING SPEED DATING SESSIONS
WITH WOULD-BE INVESTORS.
AND THE PRODUCTS THEY WERE
PITCHING RANGED FROM THE MOST
MUNDANE BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL
SERVICES TO PARAPHERNALIA LONG
THE SOLE PROVINCE OF HEAD SHOPS,
AUGMENTED BY HIGH TECH,
JASON LEVIN AND JESSICA RILEY
WERE HERE WITH THEIR SPYRE, SORT
OF AN E-CIGAR.
WHY IS IT BETTER THAN A JOINT,
OR IN THIS CASE A BLUNT?
>> FOR ONE, IT'S VAPORIZATION,
SO YOU'RE NOT TAKING IN
CARCINOGENS AND YOU'RE NOT
CREATING ANY KIND OF THAT TAR,
OR RESIDUE, THAT'S GOING TO
CLUNK UP YOUR LUNGS AND CAUSE
YOU TO COUGH AND WHEEZE.
>> Reporter: WELL, WITHOUT
NECESSARILY  BUYING THE HEALTH
CLAIMS, THE AIM SEEMS
STRAIGHTFORWARD ENOUGH: A
STANDARDIZED, REGULATED PRODUCT.
ARCVIEW CO-FOUNDER STEVE
DEANGELO.
>> SADLY, TODAY, THE CANNABIS
CONSUMER IN MOST PLACES AROUND
THE WORLD IS IN THE SAME
POSITION THAT THE MEAT CONSUMER
WAS IN BEFORE UPTON SINCLAIR
WROTE THE JUNGLE, AND WE HAD
MODERN SANITARY REGULATION.
>> Reporter: IT'S A PROBLEM ONE
SIGNIFICANT SEGMENT OF THIS
BUDDING INDUSTRY ADDRESSES.
>> MY-DX WILL EMPOWER
MANUFACTURERS, DISTRIBUTORS,
REGULATORS AND CONSUMERS TO TEST
THE SAFETY AND POTENCY OF
CANNABIS.
>> Reporter: DANIEL YAZBECK
T ANALYZER.NT MY-DX, A PORTABLE
>> NOW THAT'S GOING TO VAPORIZE
THE SAMPLE AND START SNIFFING
THE CHEMICALS.
LIKE THC AND CBD, WHICH
DETERMINE HOW YOU FEEL OR WHAT
AILMENTS YOU RELIEVE.
>> Reporter: PRETTY MUCH WHAT
THE EBBU GUYS ARE GOING FOR WITH
THEIR BRANDED HIGHS.
>> WE'RE CREATING A LOT OF
INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY ASSOCIATED
WITH HOW A PERSON ACTUALLY IS
EXPERIENCING THAT RATIO OF
CANNABINOIDS AND TURPENES.
>> Reporter: INVESTOR TODD
STEINBERG WAS IMPRESSED.
>> I THINK WHAT MONDAVI DID FOR
THE WINE INDUSTRY IN THE UNITED
STATES, A PRODUCT LIKE THIS AND
A COMPANY LIKE THIS COULD DO.
>> Reporter: FORTUNES SEEMED TO
BECKON TO THOSE WHO PLACE THE
RIGHT BETS EARLY ENOUGH, JUST AS
WITH COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET,
WHERE INVESTORS LIKE THESE MADE
THEIR OWN FIRST SCORES.
>> THIS REALLY DOES RESEMBLE THE
I.T. INDUSTRY AND THE COMPUTER
INDUSTRY IN THE 1980'S.
>> I WAS AN INVESTMENT BANKER
WHO FOCUSED EXCLUSIVELY ON THE
INTERNET AND NEW MEDIA IN THE
LATE '90S AND MID '90S, AND THIS
IS A BIGGER OPPORTUNITY THAN
THAT EVEN WAS.
>> ONE OF THE THINGS I'VE
LEARNED FROM DOING ZYNGA IS THAT
YOU CAN TELL WHEN SOMETHING'S,
LIKE AN INDUSTRY'S GOING TO BE
BIG.
>> Reporter: TOM BOLLICH MADE
HIS MILLIONS INVESTING IN AND
HELPING RUN THE VIDEO GAME TITAN
ZYNGA.
>> EXPERIENCE A COMPLETELY NEW
FARM FILLED WITH ALL NEW
ACTIVITIES.
>> Reporter: WHO COULD HAVE
DREAMED THAT AT ITS PEAK,
FARMVILLE WOULD BOAST 84 MILLION
USERS AND SPAWN A BROOD OF
SIMILAR DIGITAL DIVERSIONS?
SO WHY NOT INVEST IN HIS NEW
VENTURE, SURNA, WHICH MAKES
ENERGY EFFICIENT CLIMATE CONTROL
SYSTEMS FNDOOR CULTIVATION.
>> THIS IS THE NEXT BIG
INDUSTRY, SO IT'S, MIGHT AS WELL
BE IN IT.
>> Reporter: WHAT DO YOUR
BILLIONAIRE, ENTREPRENEUR HI-
TECH FRIENDS THINK ABOUT YOU IN
THE MARIJUANA INDUSTRY?
>> THEY THINK THIS IS THE BEST
IDEA I'VE EVER HAD.
>> Reporter: NATE AMES, CO-
INVENTOR OF A MACHINE THAT
DISTILLS PLANT OILS, IS A GOOD
EXAMPLE HOW FAR THIS INDUSTRY
MAY REACH.
>> WE ACTUALLY STARTED THE
BUSINESS FOR DECAFFEINATING AND
THEN THE CANNABIS INDUSTRY FOUND
US.
>> Reporter: THEIR SALES HAVE
SINCE SHOT UP TEN-FOLD.
SO NOW, WERE YOU GUYS MARIJUANA
USERS IN COLLEGE WHO THOUGHT:
"HEY, WE CAN TAKE THIS
TECHNOLOGY WE'VE LEARNED AND
APPLY IT TO SOMETHING WE CARE
ABOUT?"
>>  NO, SIR.
IN FACT, NOBODY IN OUR COMPANY
PARTAKES IN CANNABIS USE.
IT'S ILLEGAL IN OUR STATE.
WE'RE FROM OHIO, SO FAR AS I'M
CONCERNED, IT'S STILL ILLEGAL.
>> Reporter: FAIR TO SAY,
THOUGH, THAT MOST AT THIS
CONFERENCE WERE AS MUCH DEVOTEES
OF THE HER E
OPPORTUNISTS.
>> OH WELL, I'VE BEEN A CANNABIS
ACTIVIST AND ENTREPRENEUR SINCE
I WAS ABOUT 15 YEARS OLD.
>> Repor ITION TO CO-
FOUNDING ARCVIEW INVESTORS,
STEVE DEANGELO IS HEAD OF THE
HARBORSIDE HEALTH CENTER IN
OAKLAND, THE NATION'S LARGEST
MEDICAL MARIJUANA DISPENSARY.
FOR DEANGELO, IT ALL STARTED
NEARLY HALF A CENTURY AGO, AT
AGE 13,  WHEN A FRIEND TURNED
HIM ON, AND HE HAD WHAT HE CALLS
A LIFE CHANGING SPIRITUAL
EXPERIENCE.
>> THE WAY THAT THE SUNLIGHT
FILTERED THROUGH THE LEAVES, AND
THE WAY THAT THE GUPPIES SWAM IN
THE WATER, AND THE WAY THAT THE
WIND BLEW IN MY HAIR.
I FELT ALL OF THESE THINGS
SIMULTANEOUSLY, AND FELT
CONNECTED TO THEM IN THIS REALLY
PROFOUND WAY THAT I NEVER HAD
BEEN BEFORE.
>> Reporter: I MYSELF FIRST
SMOKED GRASS, EXCITEDLY, IN MY
LATE TEENS.
BUT I QUIT A FEW YEARS LATER
WHEN IT BEGAN TO FREAK ME OUT.
I KNOW OTHERS WHO'VE HAD MUCH
WORSE REACTIONS.
>> IT'S NOT A PANACEA AND IT'S
NOT HARMLESS.
I DO THINK THAT SOME PEOPLE HAVE
CHALLENGES WITH IT.
>> Reporter: SO, POSSIBLY
DANGEROUS, SAYS TROY DAYTON, BUT
COMPARED TO WHAT?
>> WITH CANNABIS, I DON'T THINK
WE'RE GOING TO SEE EVEN REMOTELY
A FRACTION OF THE SOCIAL COSTS
THAT WE SEE FROM ALCOHOL.
AND ONE OF THE THINGS I THINK
CANNABIS IS SO GREAT FOR, FOR SO
MANY PEOPLE, IS IT GIVES THEM A
MOMENT TO RELAX AND REFLECT, AND
TO THINK ABOUT WHAT REALLY
MATTERS TO THEM.
>> Reporter: BUT WHAT IF THEY
GET TOO RELAXED, ASKS CALIFORNIA
GOVERNOR JERRY BROWN.
>> HOW MANY PEOPLE CAN GET
STONED AND STILL HAVE A GREAT
STATE OR A GREAT NATION?
THE WORLD'S PRETTY DANGEROUS,
VERY COMPETITIVE.
I THINK WE NEED TO STAY ALERT,
IF NOT 24 HOURS A DAY, MORE THAN
SOME OF THE POTHEADS MIGHT BE
ABLE TO PUT TOGETHER.
>> Reporter: OF COURSE, MOST OF
THESE FOLKS WOULD DISAGREE.
>> CANNABIS STIMULATES MY MIND.
>> Reporter: BUT SOME SEEMED TO
SYMPATHIZE WITH JERRY BROWN.
LONG TIME MARIJUANA USER?
>> ON AND OFF, RIGHT NOW, OFF,
BECAUSE IT TURNS OUT RUNNING A
STARTUP TAKES A LOT OF TIME AND
YOU CAN'T EXACTLY SHOW UP TO ONE
OF THESE STONED.
>> Reporter: BECAUSE IF YOU DO,
YOU MIGHT JUST GET WEEDED OUT,
IN THIS NEW FRONTIER OF, TO USE
OUR LAST OBLIGATORY POT PUN,
HIGH FINANCE.
>> Ifill: WHAT IF SOMEONE TRIED
TO KILL YOU?
IF YOU COULD FACE HIM AGAIN,
WHAT WOULD YOU DO?
HARI SREENIVASAN HAS OUR BOOK
CONVERSATION.
>> Sreenivasan: AFTER SEPTEMBER
11TH, A LONE GUNMAN WENT ON WHAT
HE CALLED "ARAB HUNTING" IN
TEXAS.
HE SHOT THREE SEPARATE SOUTH
ASIAN MINI-MART WORKERS.
ONE OF THE VICTIMS, WHO WAS SHOT
IN THE FACE, SURVIVED AND LATER
WENT TO LEAD A CHARGE TO SPARE
HIS ATTACKER FROM THE DEATH
PENALTY.
IT'S THE TRUE CRIME THAT NEW
YORK TIMES COLUMNIST ANAND
GIRIDHARDADAS USES TO EXAMINE
MUCH MORE ABOUT AMERICA IN HIS
NEW NON-FICTION BOOK, "THE TRUE
AMERICAN: MURDER AND MERCY IN
TEXAS."
LET'S TALK ABOUT THESE TWO
VERY DISTINCT CA,, ONE FROM
BAFGARESH AND ONE FROM
TEXAS.
TELL US ABOUT IT.
>> IN A WAY THEY EACH TYP
IFY THEIR WORLD, ONE IS AN
IMMIGRANT FROM BANGLADESH, A
MUSLIM WHO COMES TO THIS
COUNTRY NOT FLEEING A
TERRIBLE LIFE BUT A
PERFECTLY DECENT LIFE THAT
STILL DIDN'T FEEL ENOUGH TO
HIM.
SO HE IS AN AIR FORCE
OFFICER?
HIS SOCIETY.
BUT COMES TO AMERICA WANTING
TO GET IN ON THE IT
REVOLUTION.
AND IS WORKING IN A GAS
STATION IN DALLAS AS A KIND
OF WAY STATION TO THAT GOAL.
THE OTHER IS A PRODUCT OF A
KIND OF AILING WHITE WORKING
CLASS IN TEXAS THAT HAS DONE
PROGRESSIVELY WORSE OVER
EACH GENERATION AS IN HIS
OWN FAMILY.
AND HAD ALWAYS
STURMAN'S GOAL WRESTLED WITH
METH AND BEING IN AND OUT OF
PRISON AS MANY OF OUR YOUNG
MEN ARE.
AND IN THE AFTERMATH OF 9/11
BECAME POSSESSED OF THIS
IDEA THAT HE, MARK WOULD
HAVE TO AVENGE THESE ATTACKS
AND DO SO BY GOS ON STRIKE
AGAINST THREE DIFFERENT
SOUTH ASIAN CLERKS.
>> SO HE THOUGHT HE WAS
BEING PATRIOTIC.
>> HE CALLED HIMSELF THE
TRUE AMERICAN.
PART OF THE REASON TO WRITE
THIS BOOK IS TO ASK WHAT IS
REALLY A TRUE AMERICAN.
>> Srennivasan: SO RAZZ WHO
COMES FROM THE THIRD WORLD
TECHNICALLY INTO THE FIRST
WORLD GAINED ACCESS TO THIS
LAND OF OPPORTUNITY THAT WE
ALL THINK ABOUT.
AND YET HE'S FACE-TO-FACE
WITH SOMEBODY WHO IS ALMOST
IN A THIRD WORLD INSIDE
AMERICA THAT WE DON'T THINK
OF VERY OFTEN.
THE CLASS CONVERSATION THAT
YOU HAVE IN THIS BOOK.
>> ABSOLUTELY.
AND YOU KNOW, HE-- IF HE HAD
HAD THE TYPICAL IMMIGRANT
STORY, I COME FROM AN
IMMIGRANT FAMILY THAT
ORIGINATED MUCH LIKE HIS
STORY.
I THINK HE MIG HAD
HIS PATH BEEN NORMAL, NEVER
EVEN REALIZED THAT THERE WAS
ANOTHER AMERICA BESIDES HIS
KIND OF UPWARDLY OWN AS
OPERATIONAL AMERICA THAT
WORKED FOR HIM.
AND DESPITE BEING SHOT, IT
STILL WORKED FOR HIM.
HE WAS STILL ABLE IS
GET EDUCATION, WORK AT THE
OLIVE GARDEN, GET MORE
EDUCATION, MAKE SIX FIGURES
IN IT.
BUT BECAUSE HE WAS SHOT AND
HAD TO GO TO THE TRIAL OF
THE MAN WHO SHOT HIM AND
THEN HAD TO WORK AT THE
OLIVE GARDEN INSTEAD OF IT
FOR ATLD WORK
WITH NATIVE BORN WORKING
CLASS AMERICANS WHO HE MIGHT
NOT HAVE WORKED WITH
OTHERWISE, HE GOT AN
EXPOSURE TO ANOTHER AMERICA.
AS YOU SAY A THIRD WORLD
AMERICA RIGHT BESIDE THE
FIRST WORLD AMERICA THAT HE
HAD ACCESSED.
AND HE DECIDED EVENTUALLY
THAT HE WANTED TO DO
SOMETHING ABOUT THE HURTING
COUNTRY THAT HAD PRODUCED A
MAN WHO ATTACKED HIM.
>> Srennivasan: SO HOW DO WE
GET TO AND I WILL USE YOUR
DESCRIPTION HERE, TO THE
POINT WHERE A HALF BLIND
IMMIGRANT USING ISLAM TO
CHALLENGE TEXAS ON NOT TO
EXECUTE THE WHITE RACIST WHO
TRIED TO KILL HIM.
HOW DO WE --
>> HE, TWO THINGS HAPPENED.
ONE, YOU KNOW, A RELIGIOUS
EPIPHANY.
AS A MUSLIM, A VERY DEVOUT
MUSLIM, WHEN HE THOUGHT HE
WAS DYING IN THE GAS STATION
THAT DAY, HE LOOKED TO THE
SKY AND SAID TO HIS GOD, IF
YOU SAVE ME NOW I WILL
DEDICATE THE REST OF MY LIFE
TO HELPING OTHERS.
WELL FOR SEVERAL YEARS HE
DIDN'T BECAUSE HE WAS SO
CONSUMED WITH EYE SURGERY
AND GETTING $60,000 INTO
DEBT AFTER GETTING KICKED
OUT OF THE HOSPITAL ON DAY
TWO TO ANY OTHER NUMBER OF
DEPRESSION, AND OTHER
PROBLEMS.
BUT EVENTUALLY YEARS LATER
ON A PILGRIMMAGE TO MECCA HE
KIND OF HAD THAT AWAKENING
THAT NOW IS THE TIME.
GOD WANTS ME TO REPAY THAT
FAVOR NOW AND I NEED TO
SERVE OTHERS.
BUT THE SECOND PART OF THAT
EPIPHANY WAS BECOMING AN
AMERICAN OVER THAT SAME
PERIOD.
HE BECAME A CITIZEN ALSO
THAT SAME YEAR 2009.
AND BEING A CITIZEN FILLED
HIM WITH THE SENSE THAT NOW
HE HAD EQUITY IN THE
REPUBLIC.
AND IT WASN'T JUST SOMETHING
TO COMPLAIN ABOUT OR ANALYZE
IT WAS SOMETHING TO FIX IF
HE DIDN'T LIKE WHAT WAS
GOING ON.
AND HE DIDN'T LIKE THE FACT
THAT THERE WAS THIS
UNDERNATION OF HURTING
PEOPLE BENEATH THE FOR
FORTUNATE COUNTRY THAT HE
HAD ACCESSED.
THE CONVERSATION OF THE
WANTING TO SERVE AND THE
DIAGNOSIS OF ALL THESE
AMERICANS, NATIVE BORN
AMERICANS TRAPPED IN AN
UNDERCLASS CAME TOGETHER AND
MADE HIM SAY I WANT TO
FORGIVE THIS MAN.
I WANT TO FIGHT FOR HIS
LIFE.
FIGHT THE TEXAS AUTHORITIES
TO SAVE HIM BUT THEN I
REALLY WANT TO USE THAT CASE
AND THE CONVERSATION TO SAVE
MILLIONS OF OTHERS WHO ARE
NOT MURDERERS BUT ARE
TRAPPED IN CIRCUMSTANCES
THAT LEAVE THEM WITH NO
HOPE.
>> ONE OF THE INTERESTING
THINGS IN THIS BOOK IS
COMPARING TWO DIFFERENT
POVERTIES OR TWO DIFFERENT
UNDERCLASSES.
IT'S ALMOST THAT YOUR
CENTRAL FIGURE COMES TO THE
REALIZATION THAT IN
BANGLADESH IT'S PRETTY
CRAPPY TO BE POOR BUT AT
LEAST WE'RE POOR TOGETHER.
AND HERE WHEN YOU'RE POOR
YOU'RE ALONE.
>> IT'S THE MOST STRIKING
PART OF IT FOR ME AND I HAVE
SPENT TIME REPORTING ON
POVERTY HERE AND POVERTY IN
PLACES LIKE THAT.
AND IT IS A VERY STRIKINGDIFFERI
THINK WHAT WE DON'T
UNDERSTAND ABOUT THE
SPECIALNESS OF POVERTY IN
AMERICA IS THAT OUR POOR
PEOPLE IN THIS COUNTRY, IF
YOU ARE'S POOR YOU ARE LESS
LIKELY TO BE MARRIED.
YOU ARE LESS LIKELY TO HAVE
PEOPLE AROUND YOU, TO HAVE
COMMUNITIES THAT ARE INTACT.
IN MOST SOCIETIES, IT IS THE
POOR WITHOUT DESPITE NOT
HAVING RESOURCES AT LEAST
HAVE COMMUNITY.
AND IN A WAY PEOPLE
UNDERSTAND IN THE POORER
PARTS OF THE WORLD THAT IF
YOU ARE POOR, SOLITUDE IS AN
EXTRAVAGANCE.
AND TOO MANY AMERICANS WHO
ARE POOR PAY THE UNFORTUNATE
TAX OF ALSO BEING ALONE.
>> Srennivasan: SO WHAT
HAPPENED AFTER MARK STRURMAN'S
EXECUTION.
IT SEEMED THAT THIS GUY EVEN
REACHED OUT TO HIS CHILDREN,
TO BE A RESOURCE FOR THEM
AND WENT ON SPEAKING TOURS,
KIND OF UPDATE US ON WHERE
HE IS.
>> RIGHT AFTER THE EXECUTION
WHICH HE FAILED TO PREVENT
THOUGH HE TRIED VALIANTLY,
HE REACHED OUT TO THE
DAUGHTERS AND SPECIFICALLY
TO AMBER, MARK'S ELDEST
DAUGHTER.
AND HE SAID TO HER SOMETHING
THAT I WILL NEVER FORGET.
HE SAID YOU MAY HAVE LOST A
FATHER, BUT YOU HAVE GAINED
AN UNCLE.
AND IF EVER I CAN DO
ANYTHING FOR YOU, CALL.
AND SHE DID CALL.
AND SHE NEEDED MONEY.
AND HE STARTED WIRING MONEY
TO HER UNTIL HER FAMILY
ACTUALLY ASKED HIM TO STOP
BECAUSE THEY SUSPECTED IT
WAS FUELING A METH HABIT.
>> THE BOOK IS CALLED THE
TRUE AMERICAN, THANKS SO
MUCH.
>> THANK YOU
>> Ifill: FINALLY TONIGHT,  A
MAJOR VOICE IN AND FOR JAZZ.
JEFFREY BROWN HAS OUR REPORT.
>> Brown: PIANIST AND COMPOSER
JASON MORAN IS ONE OF TODAY'S
BEST-KNOWN YOUNGER JAZZ
MUSICIANS.
PERFORMING SOLO AND WITH HIS
TRIO AROUND THE WORLD.
HE'S A TRUE BELIEVER THAT HIS
ART FORM CAN TRANSPORT AND
TRANSFORM AN AUDIENCE.
>> THERE'S A POWER THAT KIND OF
STARTS TO STIR IN THE BODY, YOU
KNOW.
MOLECULES START TO, START TO
WANT TO JUMP AROUND.
IT HAS A POSSIBILITY TO CHANGE
HOW A BODY FEELS, HOW A MIND
FEELS.
AND THAT IS SOMETHING THAT YOU
CAN'T QUANTIFY.
SO WHEN THE MUSIC HITS, WHEN IT
HITS THE AUDIENCE, WHEN IT HITS
THE SPACE, THE AIR, IT HAS THE
POSSIBILITY TO CHANGE EVERYTHING
IN THAT PERSON'S BEING.
>> Brown: NOW THE THIRTY-NINE
YEAR OLD HAS A DISTINCTIVE
PUBLIC PERCH HERE AT THE JOHN F.
KENNEDY CENTER FOR THE
PERFORMING ARTS IN WASHINGTON,
D.C., WHERE HE'S BEEN NAMED
ARTISTIC DIRECTOR FOR JAZZ.
WITH A GOAL OF BOTH PRESERVING A
TRADITION AND BUILDING NEW
AUDIENCES, A PRESTIGIOUS
POSITION PREVIOUSLY HELD BY
RENOWNED MUSICIAN AND EDUCATOR
BILLY TAYLOR, WHO DIED IN 2010.
IT WOULD SEEM AN UPHILL
CHALLENGE:  JAZZ ACCOUNTED FOR
ONLY 2% OF OVERALL ALBUM SALES
LAST YEAR, TRAILING 10 OTHER
GENRES.
BUT MORAN HAS SEEN IT HAPPEN.
FIRST, IN HIMSELF.
HE'D STUDIED CLASSICAL PIANO AS
A CHILD GROWING UP IN HOUSTON.
THEN, JUST INTO HIS TEENS, HE
HEARD A RECORDING BY JAZZ LEGEND
THELONIUS MONK, AND HIS WORLD
CHANGED.
>> I'D BEEN PLAYING, I LOVE
MOZART, I LOVE BACH, BRAHMS, BUT
AT 13 I DIDN'T UNDERSTAND ANY OF
THAT THAT I WAS PLAYING.
AND THERE WAS SOMETHING VERY
PURE AND, I DON'T KNOW, IT
RESONATED WITH ME.
THELONIOUS MONK'S PLAYING THAT I
THOUGHT OH, THIS HAS THE DEPTH
AND THE SIMPLICITY AND THE RIGOR
THAT I THINK MAKES GREAT ART,
GREAT MUSIC.
>> Brown: EXPLAIN THAT, DEPTH
AND SIMPLICITY.
>> IF YOU HEAR THELONIOUS MONK
PLAY A RUN THAT GOES FROM THE
TOP OF THE PIANO, HE HAS OPENED
UP THE GRAND CANYON WITH THAT.
HE'S THE RIVER THAT'S CARVED
THIS ENTIRE SPACE THAT WE CALL
THE GRANNY
HE DOES THAT WITH ONE RUN.
HE LETS YOU KNOW WHAT THE
POSSIBILITY OF THE SOUND OF THE
PIANO CAN DO.
>> Brown: MORAN WENT ON TO THE
MANHATTAN SCHOOL OF MUSIC AND
MADE HIS FIRST ALBUM AT AGE 24,
ON THE FAMED BLUE NOTE LABEL.
SEVEN OTHERS WOULD FOLLOW.
THE MOST RECENT IN 2010.
TITLED "TEN", IT CELEBRATED THE
10TH ANNIVERSARY OF HIS TRIO,
"JASON MORAN & THE BANDWAGON".
THAT SAME YEAR HE EARNED A
MACARTHUR GENIUS FELLOWSHIP.
NOW, MORAN WANTS TO BRING MORE
PEOPLE IN TO THE JAZZ
EXPERIENCE.
>> I THINK IT'S IMPORTANT THAT
WE CONSIDER HOW THEY CAN, IF
THEY DO NOT HAVE AN ENTRYWAY
INTO THE MUSIC, HOW THEY CAN
MAKE AN ENTRYWAY.
ONCE YTEP ON STAGE, THE
PEOPLE ARE ACTUALLY LOOKING TO
BE TRANSFORMED.
THAT'S WHY THEY SHOWED UP,
THAT'S WHY THEY SPENT SOME
MONEY.
AND GREAT PERFORMANCES DO THAT.
AND THEY FIGURE OUT THAT BALANCE
OF HOW TO LIKE GRAB YOU AND HOW
TO LIKE FLING YOU, LET YOU FREE
FALL.
AND THEN THEY CATCH YOU.
>> Brown: TOWARD THAT END, MORAN
HAS HELPED ORGANIZE A NUMBER OF
PUBLIC EVENTS AT THE KENNEDY
CENTER, INCLUDING AN "ELECTION
NIGHT JAM" IN 2012.
AND A SHOWCASE FOR YOUNG ARTISTS
AS PART OF  "BETTY CARTER'S JAZZ
AHEAD," AN EDUCATIONAL PROGRAM.
AT A RECENT CELEBRATION OF BLUE
NOTE'S 75TH ANNIVERSARY.
HE PERFORMED "BOOGIE WOOGIE
STOMP" WITH ROBERT GLASPER.
IN FACT, HE'S INTENT ON
HIGHLIGHTING THE 'GET UP AND
DANCE' ASPECT OF AN EARLIER AGE
OF JAZZ TO REV UP TODAY'S
AUDIENCE.
WITH THAT IN MIND, HE'S
ORGANIZED SOME 30 "FATS WALLER
DANCE PARTIES" AROUND THE
COUNTRY, HONORING THE GREAT
PIANIST AND COMPOSER FROM THE
FIRST HALF OF THE 20TH CENTURY.
>> HAVING A FATS WALLER DANCE
PARTY IS TRYING TO UNDERSTAND
HOW MUSIC ENGAGES AN AUDIENCE
THAT SHOWS UP TO ACTUALLY GET
DOWN, YOU KNOW.
NOT SIT IN A CHAIR BUT LIKE LET
ME GET DOWN ON THE FLOOR.
AND CAN I MAKE MUSIC THAT CAN
HAVE PEOPLE DO THAT, IT'S REALLY
CHALLENGING.
>> Brown: A FURTHER CHALLENGE IS
TO BRING MUSIC INTO NON-
TRADITIONAL SPACES
AND COLLABORATIONS WITH OTHER
ART FORMS.
IN 2012, FOR EXAMPLE, MORAN
PERFORMED WITH HIS WIFE, SOPRANO
ALICIA HALL MORAN, AS PART OF
THE WHITNEY MUSEUM'S BIENNIAL
EXHIBITION OF CONTEMPORARY ART.
>> IT'S NOT JUST A CONVERSATION
ABOUT JAZZ THAT'S IMPORTANT.
IT'S A CONVERSATION ABOUT ART
AND ARTS THAT ARE IMPORTANT.
THE WHOLE THING, THE ENTIRE
THING.
AND IT'S IMPORTANT THAT THE ART
FORMS COMMUNICATE, WHETHER IT'S
THE DANCE PROGRAM, THE JAZZ
PROGRAM OR THE CLASSICAL PROGRAM
OR OPERA PROGRAM, THAT THESE
CONVERSATIONS BECOMES FLUID.
>> Brown: MORAN SAYS THE JAZZ
CONVERSATION WILL CONTINUE WITH
WHAT HE CALLS A SERIES OF
"LISTENING PARTIES," IN WHICH HE
AND FELLOW MUSICIANS WILL JOIN
THE AUDIENCE IN DISCUSSING
CLASSIC WORKS.
HIS OWN NEXT WORK, A NEW ALBUM
TITLED "ALL RISE: A JOYFUL ELEGY
FOR FATS WALLER," IS DUE OUT
THIS FALL.
>> Ifill: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY.
SUNNI MILITANTS TOOK OVER
ANOTHER KEY CITY IN IRAQ NEAR
THE BORDER WITH SYRIA.
PRESIDENT OBAMA TOLD CONGRESS IN
A STATEMENT THAT UNDER THE WAR
POWERS LAW, THE U.S. IS
DEPLOYING ABOUT 275 U.S. TROOPS
TO IRAQ FOR SUPPORT AT THE
EMBASSY IN BAGHDAD.
U.S. AND IRANIAN OFFICIALS
DISCUSSED IRAQ ON THE SIDELINES
OF NUCLEAR TALKS IN VIENNA,
ACCORDING TO A SENIOR STATE
DEPARTMENT OFFICIAL.
AND SOMALI MILITANT GROUP AL
SHABAB CLAIMED RESPONSIBILITY
FOR KILLING AT LEAST 48 PEOPLE
IN ATTACKS IN A COASTAL TOWN IN
KENYA.
ON THE NEWSHOUR ONLINE RIGHT
NOW, JUST LIKE THE BOWL OF
PORRIDGE IN "GOLDILOCKS AND THE
THREE BEARS," IT APPEARS THAT
DINOSAURS' BODY TEMPERATURE WAS
JUST RIGHT.
NEW RESEARCH SUGGESTS THAT THE
PRE-HISTORIC ANIMALS WERE
NEITHER COLD NOR WARM-BLOODED.
READ WHAT SCIENTISTS ARE
LEARNING FROM THIS NEW
REVELATION, ON THE RUNDOWN.
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR WEB
SITE, newshour.pbs.org.
AND AGAIN, TO OUR HONOR ROLL OF
AMERICAN SERVICE PERSONNEL
KILLED IN THE AFGHANISTAN
CONFLICT.
WE ADD THEM AS THEIR DEATHS ARE
MADE OFFICIAL AND PHOTOGRAPHS
BECOME AVAILABLE.
HERE, IN SILENCE, ARE SEVEN
MORE.
AND THAT'S THE NEWSHOUR FOR
TONIGHT.
ON TUESDAY, WE'LL LOOK AT THE
LATEST EFFORTS TO STEM THE TIDE
OF INSURGENCY IN IRAQ.
I'M GWEN IFILL, WE'LL SEE YOU
ON-LINE AND AGAIN HERE TOMORROW
EVENING.
FOR ALL OF US HERE AT THE PBS
NEWSHOUR, THANK YOU AND GOOD
NIGHT